It's year end and it's time to prepare
1099s. In RAMP, you can automate the
entire 1099 process, including W9
collection, TIN verification, 1099
non-emp employee compensation and
miscellaneous form creation, and direct
filing with the IRS and select states.
In the vendors tab, click review 1099
vendors. As your vendors become 1099
eligible throughout the year, they
populate in your 1099 dashboard. Here
you can see a complete view of vendors
that need review, those that are ready
to file, completed, as well as any
excluded vendors.
Moving to the needs review tab. Here we
can take bulk action and request W9 and
econent from necessary vendors.
Once this is complete, I can start my
box mappings to generate all 1099 forms
in just a few clicks. RAMP AI will
recommend mapping spend attributed to
your accounting categories to specific
boxes.
You also have full power to customize
and edit the vendor mappings however you
would like, from bill level line items
all the way down through additional
spend. Just hit save and RAMP will
complete all the box calculations for
you across every vendor.
Once your forms are ready, you can go
through the filing process.
Review your business information.
Confirm the vendors that you're filing
for. Select whether or not you want to
include state filing with your IRS
filing. Confirm how you want your
vendors to receive a copy of their 1099.
And then purchase and file. RAM takes
care of the entire 1099 process for you.